packer/README.md, before:

# Presto machine images

This Packer configuration will generate Ubuntu images with Presto and Presto CLI installed, for deploying and managing Presto clusters on the cloud.

## On Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Using the AWS builder will create the two images and store them as AMIs.

As a convention the Packer builders will use a dedicated IAM roles, which you will need to have present.

```bash
aws iam create-role --role-name packer --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": {
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Principal": {"Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"},
    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
    "Sid": ""
  }
}'
```

Response will look something like this:

```json
{
    "Role": {
        "AssumeRolePolicyDocument": {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": {
                "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"
                }
            }
        },
        "RoleId": "AROAJ7Q2L7NZJHZBB6JKY",
        "CreateDate": "2016-12-16T13:22:47.254Z",
        "RoleName": "packer",
        "Path": "/",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::611111111117:role/packer"
    }
}
```

Follow up by executing the following

```bash
aws iam create-instance-profile --instance-profile-name packer
aws iam add-role-to-instance-profile  --instance-profile-name packer --role-name packer

```

## On Microsoft Azure

Before running Packer for the first time you will need to do a one-time initial setup.

Use PowerShell, and login to AzureRm. See here for more details: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps. Once logged in, take note of the subscription and tenant IDs which will be printed out. Alternatively, you can retrieve them by running `Get-AzureRmSubscription` once logged-in.

```Powershell
$rgName = "packer-presto-images"
$location = "East US"
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name $rgName -Location $location
$Password = ([char[]]([char]33..[char]95) + ([char[]]([char]97..[char]126)) + 0..9 | sort {Get-Random})[0..8] -join ''
"Password: " + $Password
$sp = New-AzureRmADServicePrincipal -DisplayName "Azure Packer IKF" -Password $Password
New-AzureRmRoleAssignment -RoleDefinitionName Contributor -ServicePrincipalName $sp.ApplicationId
$sp.ApplicationId
```

Note the resource group name, location, password, sp.ApplicationId as used in the script and emitted as output and update `variables.json`.

To learn more about using Packer on Azure see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/build-image-with-packer

Similarly, using the Azure CLI is going to look something like below:

```bash
export rgName=packer-presto-images
az group create -n ${rgName} -l eastus

az ad sp create-for-rbac --query "{ client_id: appId, client_secret: password, tenant_id: tenant }"
# outputs client_id, client_secret and tenant_id
az account show --query "{ subscription_id: id }"
# outputs subscription_id
```

## Building

Building the AMIs is done using the following commands:

```bash
packer build -only=amazon-ebs -var-file=variables.json presto.json
```

Override the aws_region and aws_az variables to change the target region and
availability zone, which default respectively to us-east-1 and us-east-1a.

Replace the `-only` parameter to `azure-arm` to build images for Azure instead of AWS.

Commit message:

Link to Canonical-maintained Ubuntu images

packer/README.md, after:

# Presto machine images

This Packer configuration will generate Ubuntu images with Presto and Presto CLI installed, for deploying and managing Presto clusters on the cloud.

## On Amazon Web Services (AWS)

Using the AWS builder will create the two images and store them as AMIs.

The base AMI is maintained by [Canonical](https://canonical.com/) and listed on
the [Amazon EC2 AMI Locator](https://cloud-images.ubuntu.com/locator/ec2/).

As a convention the Packer builders will use a dedicated IAM roles, which you will need to have present.

```bash
aws iam create-role --role-name packer --assume-role-policy-document '{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": {
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Principal": {"Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"},
    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
    "Sid": ""
  }
}'
```

Response will look something like this:

```json
{
    "Role": {
        "AssumeRolePolicyDocument": {
            "Version": "2012-10-17",
            "Statement": {
                "Action": "sts:AssumeRole",
                "Effect": "Allow",
                "Principal": {
                    "Service": "ec2.amazonaws.com"
                }
            }
        },
        "RoleId": "AROAJ7Q2L7NZJHZBB6JKY",
        "CreateDate": "2016-12-16T13:22:47.254Z",
        "RoleName": "packer",
        "Path": "/",
        "Arn": "arn:aws:iam::611111111117:role/packer"
    }
}
```

Follow up by executing the following

```bash
aws iam create-instance-profile --instance-profile-name packer
aws iam add-role-to-instance-profile  --instance-profile-name packer --role-name packer

```

## On Microsoft Azure

Before running Packer for the first time you will need to do a one-time initial setup.

Use PowerShell, and login to AzureRm. See here for more details: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/authenticate-azureps. Once logged in, take note of the subscription and tenant IDs which will be printed out. Alternatively, you can retrieve them by running `Get-AzureRmSubscription` once logged-in.

```Powershell
$rgName = "packer-presto-images"
$location = "East US"
New-AzureRmResourceGroup -Name $rgName -Location $location
$Password = ([char[]]([char]33..[char]95) + ([char[]]([char]97..[char]126)) + 0..9 | sort {Get-Random})[0..8] -join ''
"Password: " + $Password
$sp = New-AzureRmADServicePrincipal -DisplayName "Azure Packer IKF" -Password $Password
New-AzureRmRoleAssignment -RoleDefinitionName Contributor -ServicePrincipalName $sp.ApplicationId
$sp.ApplicationId
```

Note the resource group name, location, password, sp.ApplicationId as used in the script and emitted as output and update `variables.json`.

To learn more about using Packer on Azure see https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/windows/build-image-with-packer

Similarly, using the Azure CLI is going to look something like below:

```bash
export rgName=packer-presto-images
az group create -n ${rgName} -l eastus

az ad sp create-for-rbac --query "{ client_id: appId, client_secret: password, tenant_id: tenant }"
# outputs client_id, client_secret and tenant_id
az account show --query "{ subscription_id: id }"
# outputs subscription_id
```

## Building

Building the AMIs is done using the following commands:

```bash
packer build -only=amazon-ebs -var-file=variables.json presto.json
```

Override the aws_region and aws_az variables to change the target region and
availability zone, which default respectively to us-east-1 and us-east-1a.

Replace the `-only` parameter to `azure-arm` to build images for Azure instead of AWS.
